>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SUNDAY, MARCH 5: THE
FALLOUT CONTINUES FOLLOWING
THE PRESIDENT'S CLAIM THAT HE
WAS THE VICTIM OF WIRETAPS
DURING THE CAMPAIGN.
AND IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT: A
NEW NATIONAL PARK HONORS THE
LIFE AND LEGACY OF HARRIET
TUBMAN.
>> FREEDOM, FAITH, FAMILY,
JUSTICE.
THESE ARE THE THINGS THAT EVERY
DAY OF HER LIFE, SHE TRIED TO
ADVANCE.
>> Sreenivasan: NEXT ON "PBS
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND."
>>FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
AT LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING AND
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP IS URGING
CONGRESS TO INVESTIGATE WHETHER
PRESIDENT OBAMA WIRETAPPED TRUMP
TOWER, THE PLACE WHERE THEN-
CANDIDATE TRUMP LIVED, WORKED,
AND HEADQUARTERED HIS CAMPAIGN.
PRESIDENT TRUMP LAUNCHED THE
CONTROVERSY IN A SERIES OF
TWEETS YESTERDAY THAT SAID, IN
PART: "OBAMA HAD MY WIRES TAPPED
IN TRUMP TOWER."
IN A WRITTEN STATEMENT THIS
MORNING, WHITE HOUSE PRESS
SECRETARY SEAN SPICER SAID,"
PRESIDENT DONALD J. TRUMP IS
REQUESTING THAT AS PART OF THEIR
INVESTIGATION INTO RUSSIAN
ACTIVITY, THE CONGRESSIONAL
INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEES EXERCISE
THEIR OVERSIGHT AUTHORITY TO
DETERMINE WHETHER EXECUTIVE
BRANCH INVESTIGATIVE POWERS WERE
ABUSED IN 2016.
MISTER TRUMP HAS YET TO OFFER
ANY EVIDENCE OF ANY ELECTRONIC
SURVEILLANCE.
TODAY, THE DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL
INTELLIGENCE FOR THE LAST SIX
YEARS OF THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION, JAMES CLAPPER,
SAID ON NBC IF THERE HAD BEEN A
COURT-APPROVED WIRETAP OF TRUMP
TOWER PHONES, HE WOULD HAVE
KNOWN ABOUT IT.
>> I WILL SAY THAT, FOR THE PART
OF THE NATIONAL SECURITY
APPARATUS THAT I OVERSAW AS DNI,
THERE WAS NO SUCH WIRETAP
ACTIVITY MOUNTED AGAINST THE
PRESIDENT-- THE PRESIDENT-ELECT,
AT THE TIME OR AS A CANDIDATE OR
AGAINST HIS CAMPAIGN.
>> Sreenivasan: THE WHITE HOUSE
TODAY POINTED TO "REPORTS"
THEORIZING ABOUT PHONE WIRETAPS
AND EMAIL SERVER MONITORING.
ON FRIDAY, A POSTING BY
BREITBART NEWS AND AN INTERVIEW
ON FOX NEWS DID TOUCH ON THE
TOPIC.
DEPUTY WHITE HOUSE PRESS
SECRETARY SARA HUCKABEE SANDERS
ADDRESSED IT ON ABC.
>> I THINK HE'S GOING OFF OF
INFORMATION THAT HE'S SAYING
THAT HAS LEAD HIM TO BELIEVE
THAT THIS IS A VERY REAL
POTENTIAL.
AND IF IT IS, THIS IS THE
GREATEST OVERREACH AND THE
GREATEST ABUSE OF POWER THAT I
THINK WE'VE EVER SEEN IN A HUGE
ATTACK ON DEMOCRACY ITSELF, AND
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE HAVE A RIGHT
TO KNOW IF THIS TOOK PLACE.
>> Sreenivasan: FORMER OBAMA
PRESS SECRETARY JOSH EARNEST
SAID TODAY ON ABC NO PRESIDENT
HAS THE AUTHORITY TO ORDER
WIRETAPS HIMSELF.
>> PRESIDENT TRUMP IS WORKING
VERY HARD TO TRY TO DISTRACT THE
AMERICAN PUBLIC AND THE NEWS
MEDIA FROM THE GROWING SCANDAL
ABOUT WHY HIS ADMINISTRATION AND
WHY HE, HIMSELF, HAS, AT BEST,
NOT BEEN FORTHCOMING ABOUT THEIR
TALKS AND THEIR TIES WITH
RUSSIA.
>> Sreenivasan: THE FBI HAS
INVESTIGATED COMMUNICATIONS
DURING THE CAMPAIGN AND POST-
ELECTION TRANSITION BETWEEN A
HALF DOZEN TRUMP ADVISERS AND
RUSSIAN OFFICIALS, ACCORDING TO
REPORTS BY MULTIPLE NEWS
ORGANIZATIONS.
THE SENATE INTELLIGENCE
COMMITTEE HAS ALSO BEGUN
INVESTIGATING THE MATTER.
ONE REPUBLICAN MEMBER OF THE
COMMITTEE, SUSAN COLLINS, TOLD
CBS TODAY SHE'S SEEN NO EVIDENCE
OF COLLABORATION WITH THE
RUSSIANS OR THE WIRETAPPING
CLAIMED BY PRESIDENT TRUMP.
>> WHAT WE NEED TO DEAL WITH IS
EVIDENCE, NOT JUST STATEMENTS.
AT THIS POINT, I SEE NO EVIDENCE
OF WHAT HE'S ALLEGED.
>> Sreenivasan: THE SENATE'S
DEMOCRATIC LEADER, CHUCK
SCHUMER, SAID ON NBC THE PROBE
NEEDS TO BE MORE INDEPENDENT.
>> WE NEED A SPECIAL PROSECUTOR
TO INVESTIGATE WHAT WENT ON IN
THE TRUMP CAMPAIGN TRANSITION
AND PRESIDENCY.
>> Sreenivasan: TODAY, THE
CHAIRMAN OF THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES INTELLIGENCE
COMMITTEE, CONGRESSMAN DEVIN
NUNES, SAID AS PART OF ITS PROBE
INTO RUSSIAN MEDDLING WITH THE
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION.
JOINING ME NOW TO DISCUSS THESE
POLITICAL DEVELOPMENTS IS
"NEWSHOUR WEEKEND" SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT JEFF GREENFIELD.
JEFF, THE NEWS DOES NOT STOP ON
SATURDAY AND SUNDAY.
THIS IS PARTLY A JUSTIFICATION
OF WHY OUR PROGRAM EXISTS.
BUT IS IT POSSIBLE TO STEP BACK
FROM THIS FLOOD, FIND A LITTLE
BIT OF COMMON GROUND IN THE
PARTIES HERE?
>> I CAN TRY.
HERE'S WHAT IS INTERESTING TO
ME.
AS SOON AS THE STORY BROKE ABOUT
JEFF SESSIONS AND HIS LACK OF
COMPLETE FORTHCOMINGNESS TO AL
FRANKEN, AS SOON AS THAT
HAPPENED, A NUMBER OF
REPUBLICANS SUGGESTED MAYBE HE
SHOULD STEP OUT OF THE PICTURE.
THE FORMER AND PRESIDENT CHAIR
OF THE HOUSE OVERSIGHT
COMMITTEES WHO WERE VERY TOUGH
ON HILLARY CLINTON, A COUPLE OF
VERY CONSERVATIVE REPUBLICANS,
THE REASON THIS IS SO
SIGNIFICANT, IT IS A BASIC
POLITICAL RULE THAT I CALL THE
BE YOUR OWN MAN SAYS SO,-- WE
ALWAYS GET IN ARGUMENTS AND THE
WAY THAT ARGUMENT ENDED WAS WHEN
A GUY ON YOUR TEAM SAID YEAH, MY
GUY WAS OUT.
AND PARTICULARLY IN THIS
POLARIZED ENVIRONMENT, THE IDEA
THAT A NUMBER OF REPUBLICANS
FELT THE NEED TO STEP AWAY FROM
SESSIONS, I THINK, WAS NOT ONLY
A SIGNIFICANCE BUT IS GOING TO
PLAY OUT ON SOME OF THE OTHER
THINGS ON THE HORIZON.
>> Sreenivasan: HOW DOES THAT
PLAY INTO WHAT HAS BEEN
HAPPENING IN THE PAST COUPLE OF
DAYS, THE PRESIDENT'S LATEST
ACCUSATION FOR WHICH THERE SEEMS
TO BE NO EVIDENCE?
>> WELL, I THINK IT'S A CRITICAL
PART OF IT BECAUSE WHAT YOU'VE
GOT NOW IS, AND THIS IS NOTHING
NEW FOR THE PRESIDENT, IS AN
ATTEMPT TO SHIFT THE FOCUS, TO
SAY NO, NO, IT'S NOT ME, IT'S
THEM.
AND YOU'VE GOT A NUMBER OF
PEOPLE ON HIS SIDE, THE CHAIRMAN
IS A GOOD EXAMPLE.
PEOPLE LIKE SEAN HANNITY WHO
WILL SIMPLY EMBRACE WHAT THE
PRESIDENT HAS TO SAY.
BUT WHAT IS INTERESTING, THE TWO
REPUBLICANS WHO HAVE NEVER
WARMED TO TRUMP, SENATORS GRAHAM
AND THEN-- HAVE SAID SOMETHING
ELSE.
THEY SAID IF THIS IS JUST
REPEATING SOME CONSERVATIVE
WEBSITE'S NOTION, OR IF, IN
FACT, INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES GOT
A COURT ORDER TO LOOK INTO THE
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN SOME OF
TRUMP'S ASSOCIATES AND RUSSIA,
THAT RAISES VERY, VERY SERIOUS
QUESTIONS.
AND TO THE EXTENT THAT
INFORMATION LIKE THAT SURFACES,
I THINK THAT HAS THE POTENTIAL
TO PUT MORE REPUBLICANS AWAY
FROM A KIND OF WE'RE DEFENDING
OUR PRESIDENT COME HELL OR HIGH
WATER.
>> Sreenivasan: HOW DOES THAT
PLAY INTO REPUBLICANS KIND OF
TONING THE PARTY LINE AND
STANDING BY THEIR LEADER THAT IS
IN THE WHITE HOUSE?
>> I THINK WHEN WE MOVE TO
POLICY YOU CAN SEE WHERE THE
WHOLE NOTION OF THE POTENTIAL
REPUBLICAN FISSURES OR CRACKS
BECOMES CRITICAL.
A LOT OF REPUBLICANS WHO HAD
PROBLEMS WITH DONALD TRUMP'S
BEHAVIOR AND TEMPERAMENT SAID
WE'RE GOING TO STICK WITH YOU
BECAUSE YOU WILL DELIVER US THE
AGENDA WE'VE BEEN DREAMING OF
FOR 20 YEARS, TO THE COURT, TO
HEALTH CARE, TO REGULATIONS.
NOW THE FIRST OF THOSE, HEALTH
CARE IS RIGHT FOR DECISION.
AND WHAT YOU'RE SEEING ARE A
NUMBER OF FREE MARKET
REPUBLICANS, AS THEY CALL
THEMSELVES IN CONGRESS, HAVING
VERY SERIOUS DOUBTS ABOUT WHAT
THEIR LEADER, PAUL RYAN OR MITCH
MCCONNELL AND WHAT THE PRESIDENT
HAVE IN MIND.
THESE FREE MARKET REPUBLICANS
ARE NOT REPEAL AND REPLACE.
THEY WANT IT REPEALED.
THEY DON'T WANT TAX CREDITS.
THEY DON'T WANT EXPANDED
MEDICAID, OR SUBSIDIES, THIS IS
THEIR IDEA.
YOU HAVE REPUBLICAN GOVERNORS IN
SOMETHING LIKE 16 STATES SAYING
YOU YOU CAN'T TAKE AWAY
MEDICAID, IT'S GOING TO DESTROY
OUR BUDGET.
IF THOSE REPUBLICANS SEE DONALD
TRUMP AS SIDING WITH THE PAUL
RYAN WING, IN THIS ARGUMENT, I
THINK IT'S GOING TO MAKE THEM
LESS WILLING TO DEFEND DONALD
TRUMP ON THE AREAS THAT WE'RE
NOW TALKING ABOUT.
YOU KNOW, RUSSIAN INFLUENCE AND
THE LIKE.
SO THAT IS WHERE POLICY AND
POLITICS I THINK HAVE A REAL
CONNECTION IN THE WEEKS AND
MONTHS AHEAD.
>> Sreenivasan: AN THERE IS A
LOT COMING UP IN THE WEEKS AND
MONTHS AHEAD.
YOU MENTIONED THE SUPREME
COULTER HEARINGS WILL BE COMING
UP.
MORE PRESSING WILL BE THE
EXECUTIVE ORDER, THE REFINED
EXECUTIVE ORDER ON IMMIGRATION.
THEN YOU'VE GOT HEALTH CARE.
DOES THIS TAKE THE PRESIDENT OFF
MESSAGE?
IT SEEMS SO LONG AGO THAT THERE
WAS THIS BRIEF WINDOW AFTER HIS
JOINT SESSION OR ADDRESS TO
CONGRESS WHERE PEOPLE SAID HE
TUCK TO THE PROMPTER, IT SEEMS
OKAY.
>> I THINK THE BEST THING THE
PRESIDENT HAS GOING FOR HIM IN
THE COMING PERIOD IS THE GORSUCH
NOMINATION FOR SUPREME COURT.
BECAUSE THAT WAS A TENTH STRIKE
IN TERMS OF HIS PARTY AND THE
WHOLE CON
SECRETARY-- CONSECUTIVE BASE.
WHATEVER YOU THOUGHT ABOUT
TRUMP, YOUR DOUBTS, THE FACT
THAT HE WOULD REMAINING THE
SUPREME COURTED IN HIS IMAGE
APPEALED TO REPUBLICANS AND
CONSERVATIVES ACROSS THE BOARD
AND PICKED SOMEBODY THAT EVEN
DEMOCRATS SAY WE HAVE A PROBLEM
MAYBE WITH HIS BELIEFS BUT HE IS
CLEARLY QUALIFIED THAT IS THE
ONE MOST LIKELY TO PUT HIM BACK
ON MESSAGE.
>> Sreenivasan: JEFF
GREENFIELD, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> PLEASURE
A DAY OF RELATIVELY PEACEFUL,
THOUGH SMALL, PRO-TRUMP RALLIES
ACROSS THE COUNTRY YESTERDAY
ENDED WITH A VIOLENT SCUFFLE IN
CALIFORNIA.
AT A PARK IN BERKELEY,
CALIFORNIA, POLICE ARRESTED TEN
PEOPLE AFTER VIOLENT CLASHES
BETWEEN TRUMP SUPPORTERS AND
COUNTER-DEMONSTRATORS.
ONE WOMAN SAID A TRUMP SUPPORTER
HIT HER OVER THE HEAD WITH A
POLE CARRYING AN AMERICAN FLAG.
POLICE IN RIOT GEAR SEPARATED
THE CROWDS AND CONFISCATED
PIPES, BATS, BRICKS, AND ONE
KNIFE.
IN RESPONSE TO THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION'S CRACKDOWN ON
UNDOCUMENTED IMMIGRANTS, MEXICO
IS OPENING IMMIGRANT DEFENSE
CENTERS ACROSS THE UNITED
STATES.
THE MEXICAN FOREIGN MINISTRY
SAYS THE LEGAL AID CENTERS AT
SOME 50 CONSULATES AND EMBASSIES
WILL PROVIDE CONSULAR ASSISTANCE
AND LEGAL REPRESENTATION TO ANY
MEXICAN MIGRANTS WHO REQUEST IT.
THE PEW RESEARCH CENTER
ESTIMATES THERE ARE SIX-MILLION
UNDOCUMENTED MEXICANS IN THE
U.S. AND 11-MILLION UNDOCUMENTED
OVERALL.
THE INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION
FOR MIGRATION SAYS THE BATTLE
FOR CONTROL OF IRAQ'S SECOND
LARGEST CITY, MOSUL, HAS
DISPLACED 200-THOUSAND PEOPLE.
THE I.O.M. SAYS MORE THAN 45-
THOUSAND RESIDENTS OF THE CITY
FLED IN THE PAST WEEK ALONE.
INTERNATIONAL AID AGENCIES SAY
REFUGEE CAMPS SOUTH OF MOSUL ARE
APPROACHING FULL CAPACITY.
FOR THE PAST FIVE MONTHS, IRAQI
FORCES BACKED BY U.S. AIR-POWER,
HAVE TRIED TO DISLODGE "ISLAMIC
STATE" OR ISIS MILITANTS WHO
TOOK OVER MOSUL IN 2014 AND
DECLARED THEIR CALIPHATE THERE.
CHINA IS FORECASTING SLOWER
ECONOMIC GROWTH FOR ITSELF, THE
WORLD'S SECOND LARGEST ECONOMY.
IN A SPEECH AT THE OPENING OF
CHINA'S NATIONAL LEGISLATURE
TODAY, THE CHINESE PREMIER
PREDICTED A GROWTH RATE OF 6.5%,
DOWN FROM 6.7% LAST YEAR.
BY COMPARISON, THE AMERICAN
ECONOMY GREW BY LESS THAN 2%
LAST YEAR.
HE SAID CHINA WOULD REDUCE
SURPLUS STEEL PRODUCTION THAT IS
STRAINING TRADE RELATIONS WITH
THE U.S. AND EUROPE.
CHINA IS ALSO PLANNING TO
INCREASE ITS MILITARY SPENDING
THIS YEAR BY 7%.
THIS WEEK MARKS THE ANNIVERSARY
OF THE DEATH OF HARRIET TUBMAN,
THE 19TH CENTURY ABOLITIONIST
WHO MADE HISTORY FREEING
AMERICAN SLAVES THROUGH THE
UNDERGROUND RAILROAD.
IN JANUARY, HER HOME IN UPSTATE
NEW YORK OFFICIALLY BECAME A
NATIONAL PARK, WHICH IS NOW OPEN
TO THE PUBLIC.
IN TONIGHT'S SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND'S MEGAN
THOMPSON TAKES US THERE FOR A
CLOSER LOOK AT TUBMAN AND HER
LEGACY.
>> IF YOU STEP ONTO THESE
GROUNDS, YOU KNOW THAT YOU'RE IN
A HALLOWED PLACE.
>> Reporter: THIS PROPERTY ON
THE EDGE OF AUBURN, A SMALL CITY
IN CENTRAL NEW YORK, IS THE
PLACE WHERE HARRIET TUBMAN SPENT
THE LAST 50 YEARS OF HER LIFE.
>> BEYOND THE BARN WAS HER
VEGETABLE GARDEN.
>> KAREN HILL IS PRESIDENT AND
C.E.O. OF THE NON-PROFIT
ORGANIZATION THAT HAS PRESERVED
THE PROPERTY AND FOUGHT FOR IT
TO BECOME ONE OF AMERICA'S
NATIONAL PARKS.
>> HER LEGACY IS EMBODIED IN HER
CORE VALUES AND HOW WE LIFT THEM
UP.
FREEDOM, FAITH, FAMILY,
COMMUNITY, JUSTICE, SELF-
DETERMINATION.
THESE ARE THE THINGS THAT EVERY
DAY OF HER LIFE, SHE TRIED TO
ADVANCE.
>> Reporter: TUBMAN SECURED HER
PLACE IN HISTORY AS ONE OF THE
CONDUCTORS ON THE UNDERGROUND
RAILROAD-- A NETWORK OF PATHS
AND SAFE HOUSES THAT BROUGHT
THOUSANDS SLAVES FROM THE SOUTH
TO FREEDOM IN THE NORTH BEFORE
THE CIVIL WAR.
TUBMAN RISKED HER LIFE AGAIN AND
AGAIN BY RETURNING TO THE SOUTH
TO RESCUE HER SIBLINGS, HER
ELDERLY PARENTS, AND OTHER
SLAVES.
SHE IS CREDITED WITH PERSONALLY
LEADING SOME 70 SLAVES TO
FREEDOM.
TUBMAN WAS BORN INTO SLAVERY ON
A MARYLAND PLANTATION, BUT
AROUND AGE 27, SHE RAN AWAY AND
ESCAPED TO A FREE STATE,
PENNSYLVANIA, WHERE SHE STARTED
A NEW LIFE IN PHILADELPHIA.
DURING THE CIVIL WAR, SHE SERVED
AS A NURSE AND SPY FOR THE
NORTH, AND BECAME THE FIRST
WOMAN TO LEAD AN ARMED RAID,
WHICH RESCUED SOME 700 SLAVES IN
SOUTH CAROLINA.
AFTER THE WAR, SHE SETTLED IN
AUBURN, A FREE, LAND-OWNING
BLACK WOMAN.
THE AREA WAS PROGRESSIVE,
CENTRAL TO BOTH THE ABOLITIONIST
AND SUFFRAGE MOVEMENTS.
>> THIS IS THE CROWN JEWEL OF
THE UNDERGROUND RAILROAD
MOVEMENT.
THIS IS THE TOUCHSTONE.
THIS IS WHERE HARRIET CAME AFTER
COMPLETING HER CAMPAIGNS.
>> Reporter: THIS BRICK HOUSE
WAS TUBMAN'S BASE WHEN SHE
WASN'T TRAVELING AROUND THE
COUNTRY GIVING SPEECHES,
FIGHTING FOR THE WOMEN'S RIGHT
TO VOTE, AND RAISING MONEY TO
SUPPORT FREED SLAVES.
SHE EKED OUT A LIVING ON
PROCEEDS FROM A BOOK, A SMALL
PENSION, HER FARM AND A BRICK-
MAKING BUSINESS.
THE PROPERTY WAS HOME NOT JUST
TO HER EXTENDED FAMILY, BUT TO
THE LESS-FORTUNATE WHO NEEDED A
PLACE TO STAY.
TUBMAN EVEN BUILT AN INFIRMARY.
>> SHE PROVIDED FREE HEALTHCARE
TO EVERYBODY.
NOT JUST TO AFRICAN AMERICANS,
BUT TO ANYBODY WHO NEEDED IT.
THIS IS THE REMAINING HOME FOR
THE AGED
>> Reporter: TUBMAN STARTED A
HOME FOR THE ELDERLY, FUNDED BY
DONATIONS.
THIS IS THE ONLY ONE OF THE
ORIGINAL NINE COTTAGES THAT
REMAINS.
>> IN TOWN, THERE WAS A HOME FOR
THE AGED, BUT IT WAS SEGREGATED,
IT WAS FOR WHITES ONLY, AND SO
SHE PROVIDED THIS HOME SO THAT
THE FORMER SLAVE COULD AGE IN
DIGNITY AND IN GRACE.
>> Reporter: TUBMAN LIVED INTO
HER 90'S AND DIED IN 1913.
SHE WAS BURIED IN A CEMETERY
NEARBY.
HER HOME FELL OUT OF THE
FAMILY'S POSSESSION AND INTO
DISREPAIR.
IN THE 1990s, THE A.M.E. ZION
CHURCH-- THE CHURCH TUBMAN
BELONGED TO-- BOUGHT THE HOME
AND STARTED A NONPROFIT TO
RESTORE THE PROPERTY.
>> WHEN SHE WAS BORN, HER NAME
WAS NOT HARRIET.
>> IN 2006, IT OPENED THE
VISITOR'S CENTER, AND STARTED
GIVING REGULAR TOURS.
>> WHEN SHE USED THE HOME, IT
WAS FOUR BEDROOMS.
ONE IN FRONT, ONE IN THE BACK,
THIS ONE DOWN HERE.
>> WITH THE NATIONAL PARK
SERVICE NOW INVOLVED, THEY'RE
HOPING TO DO EVEN MORE.
FRANK BARROWS SUPERVISES THE NEW
HARRIET TUBMAN NATIONAL
HISTORICAL PARK.
>> BRINGING A NATIONAL PARK TO A
COMMUNITY DOES A FEW THINGS.
IT CERTAINLY RAISES THE
VISIBILITY OF THE SITE.
NATIONAL PARKS ARE ALSO AN
ECONOMIC DRIVER, BECAUSE OF THE
TOURISM DOLLARS THAT ARE SPENT.
FOR EVERY DOLLAR SPENT IN
FEDERAL FUNDS ON NATIONAL PARKS,
$10 IS PUT BACK INTO LOCAL
ECONOMIES.
>> Reporter: THE PARK HAS OPENED
AT A TIME OF RENEWED INTEREST IN
TUBMAN'S LIFE.
TWO FEATURE FILMS ABOUT HER ARE
IN THE WORKS, AND IN 2020, THE
TREASURY DEPARTMENT IS DUE TO
UNVEIL A DESIGN FOR A NEW TWENTY
DOLLAR BILL WITH TUBMAN ON THE
FRONT.
THERE'S ALSO A SECOND NATIONAL
PARK DEDICATED TO THE
UNDERGROUND RAILROAD CHAPTER OF
HER LIFE OPENING THIS MONTH IN
MARYLAND.
>> NATIONAL PARKS ARE A GREAT
SOURCE OF COMMUNITY IDENTITY AND
PRIDE.
IT MEANS SOMETHING TO SAY THAT,
"I'M FROM THE TOWN WHERE HARRIET
TUBMAN LIVED.
I'M FROM THE TOWN WHERE HARRIET
TUBMAN CONTINUED HER LEGACY, AND
WHERE SHE'S BURIED."
>> THIS IS MY GREAT GRANDFATHER,
THIS IS HARRIET'S NEPHEW.
>> Reporter: JUDITH BRYANT IS
THE GREAT-GREAT-GRANDNIECE OF
HARRIET TUBMAN.
THE GREAT-GREAT GRANDDAUGHTER OF
A BROTHER TUBMAN RESCUED IN
1854.
>> I WOULDN'T BE HERE IF SHE
HADN'T DONE WHAT SHE DID,
>> Reporter: SHE LIVES IN A
NEARBY HOUSE BUILT BY TUBMAN'S
NEPHEW IN 1901.
BRYANT SAYS TUBMAN'S EXTENDED
FAMILY IN AUBURN WAS VERY CLOSE
KNIT.
>> THAT WAS HER MOTIVATING
FACTOR, AND SO SHE RESCUED HER
FAMILY FIRST.
>> Reporter: BRYANT'S MOTHER
KNEW THE ELDERLY TUBMAN WHEN SHE
WAS A CHILD.
>> MY MOTHER SAID HARRIET WOULD
COME AND SIT IN THE CORNER BY
THE DOOR, SHE WOULD APPEAR TO
DOZE OFF UNTIL SOMEBODY SAID
SOMETHING THAT SHE WAS EITHER
MAYBE A LITTLE OFF-COLOR OR THEN
SHE WOULD SIT UP AND--
>> Reporter: PERK UP.
>> SIT UP AND, YES, PERK UP,
OPEN HER EYES AND THIS WAS SORT
OF MAKE IT UNDERSTOOD THAT SHE
DIDN'T QUITE APPROVE OF IT.
>> Reporter: BRYANT AND HER
FAMILY DONATED TUBMAN'S BED TO
THE PARK, AND A SEWING MACHINE.
BRYANT ALSO HAS A LARGE
COLLECTION OF FAMILY
MEMORABILIA.
>> THIS IS A 1911 BILL.
>> Reporter: ...FOR A HOSPITAL
STAY AT THE END OF TUBMAN'S
LIFE.
>> THIS IS A PAMPHLET--
>> Reporter: A PAMPHLET
FEATURING TUBMAN AND OTHER LOCAL
DIGNITARIES.
>> THIS IS A PICTURE THAT IS NOT
OFTEN SEEN--
>> Reporter: BRYANT IS PROUD TO
PRESERVE THE LEGACY OF HER
GREAT-GREAT-GREAT AUNT.
AND SHE'S THRILLED THE NEW
NATIONAL PARK WILL NOW DO THE
SAME.
>> IT'S A WONDERFUL THING NOT
JUST FOR AUBURN BUT FOR THE
COUNTRY.
AND PEOPLE NEED TO SEE THIS
STORY AND SEE WHAT WENT ON HERE.
>>LEARN MORE ABOUT THE HARRIET
TUBMAN NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK
AND HER LIFE AFTER THE CIVIL
WAR.
VISIT pbs.org/newshour.
>> Sreenivasan: RESIDENTS OF
FLINT, MICHIGAN, AN HOUR OUTSIDE
DETROIT, ARE ABOUT TO BE CHARGED
MORE MONEY FOR TAP WATER.
THE STATE, WHICH MADE A DECISION
IN 2014 THAT CAUSED FLINT'S
WATER SUPPLY TO BE CONTAMINATED
WITH LEAD, IS ENDING A SUBSIDY
PROGRAM THAT REDUCED CUSTOMERS'
WATER BILLS.
THE STATE SAYS FLINT'S WATER NOW
MEETS FEDERAL WATER QUALITY
STANDARDS, BUT MANY RESIDENTS
FEEL IT'S STILL UNSAFE.
JOINING ME NOW TO DISCUSS THE
ISSUE VIA SKYPE FROM MIDLAND IS"
MICHIGAN RADIO" REPORTER STEVE
CARMODY.
IS THE WATER IN FLINT SAFE TO
DRINK?
>> THE WATER IN FLINT IS SAFER
THAN WHAT IT HAD BEEN.
INITIALLY MORE THAN A YEAR AGO
WHEN LEAD TESTING WAS DONE,
LEVELS OF MORE THAN-- IN THE
HUNDREDS OF PARTS PER BILLION OF
LEAD WERE BEING DETECTED IN
FLINT WATER.
NOW THE LEVEL IS BELOW THE
FEDERAL ACTION LEVEL OF 15 PARTS
PER BILLION.
SO IT IS SAFER.
BUT IT IS STILL NOT PURE WATER.
IT STILL HAS SOME LEAD IN IT.
>> Sreenivasan: OKAY.
SO THE LEVELS ARE GETTING BETTER
AND THAT IS KIND OF GOOD ENOUGH
TO PASS THE NATIONAL THRESHOLD,
RIGHT?
SO WHAT ARE THE DOMINO AFFECTS
HERE.
IF PEOPLE ARE TOO POOR, PERHAPS,
TO PAY THEIR WATER BILL OR THE
SUBSIDY HAS REALLY MADE UP FOR
THAT GAP, WHAT HAPPENS IF THEY
MISS A PAYMENT?
>> WELL, THAT'S A GOOD QUESTION.
AT THIS POINT THE CITY HAS NOT
DECIDED WHETHER THEY WILL BEGIN
TO SHUT OFF PEOPLE WHO ARE
BEHIND ON THEIR PAYMENTS.
RIGHT NOW 55% OF RESIDENTIAL
WATER CUSTOMERS ARE CURRENT ON
THEIR WATER BILLS.
THAT'S AFTER A YEAR OF HAVING
THE STATE SUBSIDIZE 65% OF THEIR
WATER BILL.
NOW ONCE THAT 100% TAKES EFFECT
THAT THEY WILL START SEEING
BEGINNING IN THEIR APRIL WATER
BILLS, THE EXPECTATION IS THAT
FEWER PEOPLE WILL BE CURRENT ON
THEIR WATER BILLS, EITHER
BECAUSE THEY DON'T HAVE ENOUGH
MONEY TO PAY VERY HIGH WATER
BILLS OR BECAUSE THEY JUST DON'T
WANT TO PAY FOR WATER THEY DON'T
TRUST.
AT THAT POINT THE CITY'S GOING
TO HAVE TO MAKE A DECISION
WHETHER THEY'RE GOING TO PUSH
AHEAD WITH SHUTTING PEOPLE OFF
OR TRY TO MAKE A DIFFERENT
SOLUTION.
>> THE IRONY IS IF YOU DON'T
HAVE ENOUGH REVENUE COMING IN,
YOU DON'T HAVE THE MONEY TO FIX
THE PIPES THAT YOU NEED.
>> EXACTLY.
THE CITY IS FACING A COUPLE OF
COST ISSUES HERE.
THEY HAVE TO REPLACE PIPES.
THEY'RE GETTING SOME HELP FROM
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT WITH
THAT.
THEY ALSO HAVE TO PAY FOR WATER
FROM DETROIT WHICH IS THEIR
CURRENT WATER SOURCE, WHICH IS
RATHER EXPENSIVE.
AND IF PEOPLE ARE NO LONGER
PAYING THEIR WATER BILLS, THE
STATE IS NO LONGER HAPPEN
HELPING THEM AND THE CITY IS NO
LONGER RECEIVING A SEPARATE
SUBSIDY TO PAY FOR DETROIT WATER
T WILL PUT THE BUDGET INTO A BIG
SQUEEZE.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT IS THE
FUTURE TIME LINE FOR HOW PEOPLE
CAN EXPECT TO GET FLINT WATER
BACK TO NORMAL?
I MEAN THEY WANT TO SWITCH BACK
OFF OF DETROIT WATER AND BACK TO
LAKE HURON, RIGHT?
>> YES, THIS IS GOING TO TAKE
SEVERAL YEARS.
A COUPLE OF THINGS HAVE TO TAKE
PLACE.
NUMBER ONE, THEY HAVE TO REPLACE
THE LEAD SERVICE LINE.
THE PIPES THAT CONNECT HOMES TO
CITY WATER MAINS.
THOSE HAVE BEEN A PRIMARY SOURCE
OF LEAD LEECHING TOO WATER THAT
IS GOING TO TAKE SEVERAL YEARS
FOR THE CITY TO ACCOMPLISH.
AT THE SAME TIME, THE CITY'S
WATER PLAN HAS TO BE UPGRADED SO
THAT IT CAN BEGIN TREATING WATER
FROM LAKE HURON FOR THE NEW
PIPELINE THAT'S BEEN BUILT.
BUT IN ORDER TO GET ALL THE FDA
OR ALL THE EPA APPROVALS AND
APPROVALS FROM THE STATE, IT'S
GOING TO TAKE SEVERAL YEARS SO
IT WILL PROBABLY BE PAST 2020
BEFORE THAT ACTUALLY HAPPENS.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT,
STEVE CARMODY JOINING US VIA
SKYPE FROM MIDLAND, THANKS SO
MUCH.
>> MY PLEASURE.
>> Sreenivasan: LATE WORD
TONIGHT, FBI DIRECTOR JAMES
COMEY REPORTEDLY CONSIDERS
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S CLAIMS THAT
PRESIDENT OBAMA ORDERED THE
PHONES IN TRUMP TOWER TAPPED
FALSE.
CITING UNNAMED U.S. OFFICIALS,
THE "NEW YORK TIMES" AND "USA
TODAY" ARE REPORTING COMEY ASKED
THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT THIS
WEEKEND TO REFUTE THE CLAIM,
BECAUSE THERE IS NO EVIDENCE TO
SUPPORT IT.
ADDITIONALLY, "THE TIMES" SAYS,
COMEY BELIEVES THE CLAIM
INSINUATES THE F.B.I. MAY HAVE
BROKEN THE LAW BY PARTICIPATING
IN AN ILLEGAL WIRETAP.
NEITHER THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT
NOR THE F.B.I. ISSUED A
STATEMENT ON THE MATTER.
TOMORROW ON THE NEWSHOUR, A
PROFILE OF COMIC ACTOR JORDAN
PEELE, MAKING HIS DIRECTORIAL
THRILLER "GET OUT."
THAT'S ALL FOR THIS EDITION OF
PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
THANKS FOR WATCHING.